1. Put all the *.el files of this package in one of your lisp load path
   directories. Eval the variable `load-path' to see where this directories
   are on your system. 

2. Put the following in your .emacs (or default.el or site-init.el):

   (autoload 'view-processes "view-process-mode"
     "Prints a list with processes in the buffer `view-process-buffer-name'.
   It calls the function `view-process-status' with default switches.
   As the default switches on BSD like systems the value of the variable
   `view-process-status-command-switches-bsd' is used. 
   On System V like systems the value of the variable
   `view-process-status-command-switches-system-v' is used.
   IF the optional argument REMOTE-HOST is given, then the command will
   be executed on the REMOTE-HOST. If an prefix arg is given, then the 
   function asks for the name of the remote host."
   t)

   If you want, you can also put the following in your .emacs

   (autoload 'ps "view-process-mode"
     "Prints a list with processes in the buffer `view-process-buffer-name'.
   COMMAND-SWITCHES is a string with the command switches (ie: -aux).
   IF the optional argument REMOTE-HOST is given, then the command will
   be executed on the REMOTE-HOST. If an prefix arg is given, then the 
   function asks for the name of the remote host.
   If USE-LAST-SORTER-AND-FILTER is t, then the last sorter and filter 
   commands are used. Otherwise the sorter and filter from the list
   'view-process-sorter-and-filter' are used."
   t)

3. If you want to customize the mode, then you should take a look at the
   the following variables (alphabetic order):
	view-process-default-kill-signal
	view-process-display-with-2-windows
	view-process-header-line-background
	view-process-header-line-detection-list
	view-process-header-line-font
	view-process-header-line-foreground
	view-process-header-line-underline-p
	view-process-header-mode-hook
	view-process-hide-header
	view-process-itimer-value
	view-process-mode-hook
	view-process-motion-help
	view-process-pid-field-name
	view-process-rsh-command
	view-process-signal-command
	view-process-signal-line-background
	view-process-signal-line-font
	view-process-signal-line-foreground
	view-process-signal-line-underline-p
	view-process-sorter-and-filter
	view-process-status-command
	view-process-status-command-switches-bsd
	view-process-status-command-switches-system-v
	view-process-test-command
	view-process-test-switches
	view-process-truncate-lines
	view-process-uname-command
	view-process-uname-switches

   There are also other variables, but I think, that there is normaly
   no need to change them.
